# *O. mykiss* sperm methylome results

For an in-depth description of how I got from my original `fastq` file to these files see the documentation in the [notebooks directory](https://github.com/mmiddleton/mmiddleton-fish546/tree/master/notebooks).

It should be noted that although I was able to get my `Bismark` analysis to complete in the terminal (and that is how the first four files were produced) I used the CoGe analysis that I ran to `BLAST` heavily methylated genes. Also, the `.bam` file produced during the alignment step of `Bismark` (which is what is used during the methylation extractor step of `Bismark`) is too large to post to GitHub and is therefore was not uploaded to my repository.


### A description of each file:
- **.M-bias.txt:** This is one of the default outputs of the methylation extractor step of `Bismark`. The table shows methylation proportion across each possible position in the read in the format: read position, count methylated, count unmethylated, % methylation, total coverage. This table could be used to generate graphs in a program like R. By default, the step of the output should have also produced an `.png` file showing the M-bias plot, however, this requires the Perl module GD::Graph which I do not have, therefore the `.png` file was not made.
- **.bedGraph.gz:** This file was produced by adding the `bedGraph` command to the methylation extractor step of `Bismark`. The result is a sorted file reporting the position of a given cytosine and its methylation state in the format: chromosome, start position, end position, methylation percentage.
- **.cov.gz:** This file is one of the default outputs of the methylation extractor step of `Bismark`. The result is a tab-separated table in the format: seq-ID, methylation state, chromosome, start position (= end position), methylation call (+ = methylated, - = unmethylated).
- **CpG_context(...).zip:** This file was produced by adding the `comprehensive` command to the methylation extractor step of `Bismark`. The default output is a file for each methylation type (CpG, CHH, CHG) and each strand type (original top, original bottom) for a total of six different files. However, with the `comprehensive` command you can combine the files for each strand type into one file for each methylation type so that you only have three files. I have only posted the file for CpG context here because our lab is not interested in CHH or CHG methylation.
- **O.mykiss_methylatedgenes_BLAST.tab:** This file was made using the same procedures to BLAST my CoGe analysis as described in the [CoGe oyster methylation notebook](https://github.com/mmiddleton/mmiddleton-fish546/blob/master/quiz_exercises/Week6_CoGe_oyster/CoGe_oyster_methylation_notebook.md). For the purposes of this exercise, I was only interested in highly similar sequences, so while I did do a BLAST for "somewhat similar sequences" I ignored anything with an e-value greater than 0.5. I BLASTed the sequences in several heavily methylated regions on different scaffolds, but after a while I kept coming up with the same genes, so the results for 10 of the scaffolds that I looked at are included in this table. The is sorted by e-value and is in the format: Sequence ID, Position, Sequence, Top Blast Hit (gene), Identity, e-value.